
connector vs crossover. The pin essentially fit together so that data can be transmitted
ie the transmiting pit on the connector will match up with the recieving pin on the crossover
rf 45
pin 1, 2: transmist
3,6: recieve
others not used. sometimes used for phone network.


baseband uses a small part of the wave spectrum and sends only one signal at a time
boradband uses a larger part of the spectrum and uses frequency division to send multiple signals

packet switching vs circuit switching
packet switching determines the route along the way
circuit switching determines route for connection before

packet advantages
	security
	bandwidth used to full potential
	devices of different speeds can communicate
	not affected by line failure, can redirect signal
	availability, no waiting for direct connection
	in disasters when telephone is down(circuit) email and text sometimes works (Packet)	
disadvantages
	under heavy use there can be a delay
	data packets ca get lost
	protocols are needed for reliable transfer
	not so good for streaming things where order matters(dropping a frame in a video)

circuit: three phases 1 establish connection, 2 transfer data, 3 diconnect
advantages
	no interference no sharing
	the user is guaranteed the full bandwidth for duration of connection
disadvantages
	inefficent: equipment may sit idle for long periods while connection is open but no data is sent
	takes a long time to set up connection
	during disaster direct connections may be down

primarly developed for voice protocol
	
application:supporting network applications
transport:process to process data transfer
network: routing of datagrams from source to destination
link: data transfer between neighboring network elements
physical:carries actual signals between devices

application layer, highest layer: where applications run
ip address identifies host
socket identifies application on host
connection is a socket pair, client ip client port server ip and server port


packet delay
1 nodal processing, check bit erros and detmine outputlink
2 queueing delay, waiting at output depends on congestion of router
2 transmission delay, expressed in transmission rate or r,. transmission delay = L/R L:packet length in bits
3 propagaion delay d:length of physical link in beters s:propagation speed. delay = d/s
TCP: connection oriented: connection set up

reliable transport: between sending and recieving
flow control: sender wont overwhelm receiver
congestion control: throttle sender when network overloaded
does not provide timing or minimum bandwidth

TCP carries a lot of over head

connection-oriented: initializes sender reciever state before data connection
point to point: one sender one receiver and bi-directional data flow
in-order byte stream": cumulative byte count and ack of bytes recieved
pipelined: congestion and flow control
flow control: makes sure the sender cant overwhelm the reciever


pipelining: sender transmits multiple packets
flow control: reciever must have buffer to hold packets as the reciever app uses the data. The "flow" of data
into the buffer must be controlled so the data is coming in as fast as the reciever's app can use it. The nak response
contains data used to resize the amount of data to be sent out at once
UDP:
"unreliable:
does not provide connewction setup, reliability,flow control, congestion control, or bandwidth guarntee 

appplication                                   Transport protocol
email							TCP				
remote terminal						TCP
web							TCP
file transfer						TCP
streaming multimedia					TCP or UDP
internet telephone					UDP
DNS look up						UDP

Cookies
header:HTTP response message
header:HTTP request message
file:file kept on host managed by browser
back end database at website

provide:
authorization
shopping carts
recommendataions based on web activity
user session state (web email)

proxy server: caches https requests and uses this cached data to send data without involving the origin server. 
this allows the proxy server to contact an origin server once and then act as the source for any clients connecting to the proxy
This helps network traffic massivly. Reduces over all traffic of requests. Reduces traffic between proxy servers and origin. Ligthens load
on small organizations. Because instead of small orgs having to handle huge traffic, they transmist to a proxy which handles the traffic.

potential issue. Proxy server having out of data data. Fixed with conditional: GET. The proxy server can sent a conditional
get to the origin server to check if the object is up to date.

FTP: file transfer protocol
client and server
requires two connections. Client contacts server to setup control connection. Allows client to browse server. Server opens
second connection to do file transfer. After file is transfered the file connection is closed and control connection is remained open
This allows for saving state. 